at least 70 people have been killed by
an air strike in the AL magazi refugee
camp in Gaza according to the Hamas ran
Health Ministry body bags have been
piling outside the alaxa hospital where
many of the victims were taken Israel
says it's investigating the incident it
comes amid scaled back Christmas
celebrations in Bethlehem and across the
occupied West Bank let's take a look at
some live pictures this morning we're
showing you now the scene in southern
Israel on the border with Israel looking
out to gasa our correspondent Joe
Winwood has been monitoring the latest
developments for the people of Gaza
there is no rest
bite this was once a residential block
reduced to Rubble multiple generations
of families are said to have been killed
seemingly caught
unawares we were having dinner when
suddenly the bombing started without any
warning in instant our house
collapsed the victims were taken to the
nearby al- AXA Hospital in a population
as young as this children are so often
the
victims this incident already has one of
the highest single death tolls since
this War began and it is expected to
rise the Hamas run Health authorities
say more than 20,000 people have now
been killed in Gaza since Israel
launched its offensive Israel maintains
it tries to avoid civilian casualties
and blames Hamas for hiding amongst the
population yes yes the IDF released new
footage showing what it says are tunnels
under the strip used for military
purposes Hamas operates from civilian
areas it uses them to cover its
terrorist activity it is a very complex
challenge that we face and we do it well
so our forces in the field achieve good
results like the Brigade that found the
tunnel
Network while the vast majority of
Destruction has been in Gaza the west
bank has not been spared in the place
where Christianity was born they marked
the birth of Christ by remembering the
deaths this conflict has brought we used
here to have the lightning of the tree
Christmas tree in the middle
here and we used to have a big Christmas
Market in the playground down in the
school and we used to celebrate every
night at least for a week before but
this year we are just praying By Night
the Holy Mass and we will pray for
peace but those prayers are yet to be
answered this has been the most
devastating conflict between Israelis
and Palestinians in modern times and it
shows no signs of ending Joe Inwood BBC
News now let's go live to Cairo Egypt
where we can speak to Sadam s he's the
regional development lead at anera
that's the American near East Refugee
Aid NGO now I understand uh s Saddam
that you have been coordinating some of
the aid that is going through to Gaza
from the Rafa Crossing tell me about the
situation when it comes to Aid at the
moment um thank you for hosing me um
today and Merry Christmas to everyone um
I've been deployed as an era um uh I'm
already I'm I'm based in Jordan I've
been deployed to Egypt since the
beginning of the war trying to
coordinate the entry of Aid um through
Egypt to Gaza so far anera been um you
know a little bit successful in um in
allowing some of the aid to get in into
Gaza that you know we're focusing on
food um so far anera been been able to
distribute over 8
million food barcels vegetables baskets
doing shelters cleaning um we were able
to do over 1 million medical treatment
um for the health facilities inside
inside Gaza with five bbub health
clinics um and and winterization inside
Gaza as you know you know we're we're
looking inside Gaza the situation is
very dire we're looking at nine out of
10 people who are eating less than one
meal a day um and and and this is a a
testament you know by uh the world food
program and the integrated food security
uh classification that was activated
just recently that is uh ringing the
alarm that we're looking into a famine
in Gaza um we're looking at 85% of Gaza
that is being displaced we're looking at
1.9 million people out of their homes
and San how much relief has this UN
resolution the security council's vote
last week made if anything in terms of a
difference to the aid that's getting
through
unfortunately since the very beginning
of the war and this is a a reality
humanitarian Aid um is um is not enough
um the amount of trucks that are are are
going in inside Gaza are not enough on
normal day before the war we were
looking at minimum 500 trucks going
inside Gaza today we're looking at less
than 100 trucks going inside Gaza and
we're looking into a a catastrophe
because the displacement the need is
massive um children are reported who
have dehydration they're not eating um
they the word food program are saying
nine out of 10 people are eating less
than one meal a day so that is a
testament that the aid that is going in
is not enough and we need more of that
uh and we need more humanitarian Aid to
be allowed in there are many
organizations like anera who have great
responses the very beginning of the war
because of the humanitarian situation
inside Gaza that we need to support and
push for more humanitarian Aid to get in
inside Gaza and Sadam is there anything
more your contacts and on the ground can
tell us about this air strike today at
the Alm uh Al magazi refugee camp uh
we're hearing that at least 70 people
have been killed that absolutely
absolutely like we have a team um we've
been operating in Gaza for over 45 years
our team are from Gaza humanitarian
workers are um are at at a critical
position you know because of the
communication blackout uh uh uh uh the
bombardment that is happening in a very
um chaotic way we're we're hearing every
day from our team about the risk of
Distributing aid but as well about the
bombardment that is happening all over
Gaza that is challenging the
humanitarian distribution inside Gaza
that is creating barriers even if you
have Aid it's still very difficult to
get that Aid to where it's needed so we
need a ceasefire we need more
humanitarian Aid getting into Gaza to
support children women the people who
are the 85% of people who are displaced
inside gazan okay Sadam s from anera
thank you very much for bringing us up
to date on the work that your
organization does and on the situation
in Gaza thank
you well we can now cross live to
Bethlehem and join our correspondent
there Shima Khalil uh shimer a much more
subdued Christmas this year
reini Bethlehem feels and looks very
very different Christmas is supposed to
be the height of the season of
celebrations here in Bethlehem the eyes
of the world would have been on this
place the birthplace of Jesus for
celebrations leading the world into uh
the marking of Christmas and yet it
looks nothing like its festive self I've
been here for days and I've been at the
at manger Square where the huge
Christmas tree is supposed to be where
it would be heaving with activity with
pilgrims and tourists celebrating
Christmas none of that is happening
instead yesterday at in the place where
the tree was supposed to be many uh
dozens of Palestinian children held a
flag a Palestinian flag and waved it
with a message of solidarity for gaza's
children the scouts were holding banners
saying we pray uh for Gaza Gaza is in
the heart and you do feel that these
images that come out of G AA including
of course from Al maazi where you what
with what you saw in Joe's report and
what you've been reporting they hit very
close to home here because many here um
also have family and friends trapped
inside Gaza I spoke to one young man
who's on the phone to his father and his
father is trapped in a church in the
east of Gaza City and his dad was
telling me there's just destruction all
around us and they're very reluctant to
move because he says that the roads
leading to areas in the South are
extremely dangerous but also he said
that many people who have moved to
supposedly safer areas um have been
killed and that's the complaint that you
hear even from people that made it out
of the razi they've been evacuated from
Gaza City to come to Central Gaza only
to be hit like they had last night shim
I wanted to ask you um as well about
reports that we're hearing that Egypt
has now put forward a new proposal for a
ceasefire we've been hearing in the last
week or so that talks have resumed and
then we haven't really heard much more
what more can you tell us about these
latest reports
shimer yeah this is another proposal
from from the Egyptians remember when
isma Hana was in Cairo last week there
was a bit of hope that the negotiations
could be underway s serious negotiations
would be underway they've hit a setback
when Hamas came out and said there will
be no deal to exchange hostages without
a ceasefire which is out of the question
for um the Israeli government this is a
three-phase proposal um which could see
um which could see weeks uh of separate
weeks uh of humanitarian pauses but
crucially negotiations on the initial uh
on on releasing the um all civilian
hostages in the first phase then uh
female soldiers in the second phase and
then um all the hostages ultimately in
exchange for several Palestinian
prisoners in Israeli jails and and and
crucially H the hope is and for a push
for these humanitarian pauses we've
heard uh reports from the Israeli media
of officials saying the cabinet the war
cabinet is going to meet later today to
discuss this an official was saying look
this is a first draft there are going to
be many other drafts until a decision is
made and we we've heard that several
times remember reini with the UN
resolution a as well but potentially
this could lead to some serious
negotiations but I think what doesn't
change is The Stance of both sides
remember Israel has suffered one of
biggest losses Soldier losses um in the
last 48 hours and Benjamin Netanyahu has
had to acknowledge this but said the war
is not going to stop this is going to be
a long War Hamas keeps firing Rockets H
in Israel this week sirens were sounding
near T aiv and unless that's those two
stances budge humanitarian Aid and that
ceasefire is not going to be possible
and I think this is where the biggest
the big challenge for Egypt and other
negotiations negotiators is going to be
difficult Christmas this year for so
many sha Khal reporting for us from
Bethlehem thank you very much